MODERATOR: Good evening and welcome to the only planned television debate between Minnesota Governor Tim Walz and his Republican challenger Dr. Scott Jensen. Welcome to the 2022 Minnesota gubernatorial debate hosted by Great Television. Many of you watching stations across the state may recognize the familiar faces joining me on the panel. Dan Wolf with Northern News Now, Justin Betty, and Stacy from KY See News Now. We have not shared questions with anyone outside of our stations and management. Dan Wolf will serve as moderator and timekeeper.
MODERATOR: Rochester is home to the world-famous Mayo Clinic. Thousands come from around the world for treatment. Health care spending topped $4 billion in 2020. The cost of health care continues to weigh heavily on families in our state. Can you point to one specific policy or initiative in your platform that will help lower the cost of health care for Minnesotans? What would you do as Governor to lower the cost? Governor Walz, you have 90 seconds.
TIM WALZ: Thank you for the question, and thank you for Great TV for hosting and thank you for Minnesotans caring about democracy. Health care is fundamental to each of us. An unprecedented pandemic and access to get the health care to get the vaccines you needed and get the lifesaving care when you needed it. It has become way too expensive. One of the things we know is making sure people are insured on the front end, so they are able to get the preventive care. We have been advocating and expanded on Minnesota Care. We were able to make sure that the provider tax stayed on, allowed that care to be delivered. We saw this last week that Minnesota ranked first in the nation for women and children's health care. Our initiative has been to get more children involved, to do more of the preventive care, to make sure we were reaching to all corners to keep the prices down. Another thing we continue to focus on. We start with insulin is make sure the prescribed prescription drugs is going down. I am grateful for the federal government's Inflation Reduction Act to help do that. We continue to do that with Minnesota Care and our veterans home to make sure we are keeping the price of drugs down. The biggest thing is we have one of the highest amount of people who are insured. We have some of the best health care providers. We have some of the best preventative care. We saw during the pandemic, we come together to solve the problems.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Dr. Jensen you have 90 seconds.
SCOTT JENSEN: We have wonderful health care in the state. I would say this. Mayo Clinic, the University of Minnesota, and so many of our systems have done such a good job. Insurance has helped Minnesota keep the premiums manageable. The other thing that has happened, we have worked together on insulin. Tim Walz and I do that together. People don't realize, insulin was a penny a unit. Now it is $.40 a unit. We need reinsurance to keep premiums down. Right now, in terms of the exchange, we have problems. We have rate cliffs where people are all of a sudden falling off that advantageous place to be. All of a sudden, instead of paying 10% of their income for premiums, they go to 20%, even 30%. That's a problem. We need to make sure that everybody can have their appendix removed, without sitting at home too long, because they're worried about whether they can afford it. I would disagree with Governor Walz. The tax is the Machiavellian way to pay for the cares we need to provide. We want to make sure every Minnesotan has basic coverage. To make sure everyone has a plan. It's too much we can't afford it. We have a lot of people, five to 10% of the population who do not have insurance. We have another chunk of people who do have insurance, the coinsurance is and pays are so much they cannot use it.
MODERATOR: Let's get over to Justin Betty.
MODERATOR: A recent decision by the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade, no longer guaranteeing women a right to abortions nationwide, leaving it to states. Our state is on the border of Fargo and Minnesota. In North Dakota, abortion could become illegal in most cases under trigger law. In Minnesota, abortion is protected under the state constitution. But that could change. Question is, what would you do to change abortion law? We begin with Dr. Jensen.
SCOTT JENSEN: Minnesota, abortion is a constitutionally protected right. The only way that feasibly gets changed is there's some sort of an amendment ballot. That would mean 4 million people from Minnesota would have a chance to decide where Minnesota comes down on this decision. Tim Walz has said this, and numerous other legal experts that I have talked with, because in Minnesota abortion is a legally protected right it's not on the ballot in November. What is, is without question, skyrocketing inflation, crime out of control, and our kids are not getting the education we think they need. As governor, I won't ban abortion. I cannot. Governor Walz has said no governor can, no politician can. I want to say this, as governor, I absolutely want to come alongside women and protect them. This is our opportunity. We need to do more. We need to share the responsibility and the challenge of planning families and planning pregnancies. I think we should have birth control pills, over-the-counter. We should have a $10 maximum, per month. I believe we should have paid maternity health benefits, when moms have babies. I think we should streamline adoption proceedings and have a tax credit associated with it. Stiffen the penalties for crimes that target women, such as carjacking and rape. Abortion is not on the ballot in November. Anything on the contrary is pure mongering.
TIM WALZ: There's a contrast. My entire career I have trusted women to make health care decisions. I don't believe anyone in this office should come between them. Scott was clear in May, he said, no kidding Sherlock, we are banning abortion. That changed after Roe v. Wade. Most of us know, you heard this from different places, this is not about trusting women or holding convictions, it's much changing your positions as the winds blow. This is about life-and-death, providers making a decision about women with no one in between. I've made it clear, I didn't have to practice 40 years of medicine to change position on women's health care in the final weeks. Being governor means making hard decisions. It doesn't mean you'll get them right. What it means is trusting Minnesotans. Let's be clear. The governors appoint Supreme Court justices who interpret cases, for them we were justices go in front of the U.S. Senate and claim there was no way Roe v. Wade would change because it was a settled law. Fool us once, it will not happen in Minnesota. I have been clear from the beginning of this. Not on our watch. I trust women and their decision to make health care decisions.
MODERATOR: Many of our viewers have reached out about the ongoing opioid crisis affecting communities big and small. According to the Department of Health 1300 people in the state died from an overdose, up 20% from 2020. Rainbow fentanyl pills looking like candies have reached Minnesota. Authorities found the brightly colored fentanyl which could appeal to kids last month. As governor what would you do to address this crisis and save lives? The question going to Governor Walz first.
TIM WALZ: The crisis continues to accelerate. We've seen this in Minnesota. It's even disproportionately hitting communities of color and indigenous communities. There's a lot of things we can do on the front end. Making sure we are stopping that demand. Making sure we have the services available. I want to say one thing I am proud of. Minnesota is one of the states that sued the manufacturers making this. This opioid pandemic started, some of you have seen the shows that have been done on this, they started pushing these things for profit and ended up spreading into our communities. That is where most of this has come from. I want to be clear. They did not do it alone. When Scott was issuing opioid prescriptions, he issued more than 94% of his peers. He did that at the same time, while accepting meals from manufacturers in the pharmaceutical companies, wining and dining on expensive meals. He did an expose that was in the Tribune that was entitled "Confessions of a Prescription Drug Pusher" where Scott acknowledged their impact on him and marketing, impacted his prescribing of those. It's getting at the front end of this. It's understanding why it got out there. It's doing what the state did, suing and then putting processes to both capture the opioids before they get there and working with folks in recovery. Minnesota can do that.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Dr. Jensen.
SCOTT JENSEN: Without question. Fentanyl that plagues us today is taking a number of lives. Over 100,000 overdose deaths in 2021, two thirds were fentanyl. In the 1980's and 90's, there was absolutely heavy-duty pharma push to encourage physicians to use more narcotics and opioids. We had another vital sign, which was the pain management level. What is your pain level? If we didn't ask that, we were not doing good medicine. I don't disagree with Tim Walz's positions. The health care system has contributed to the problems. I think the important thing, going forward, we need to stop the supply of fentanyl coming from across the southern border. I don't think Tim Walz has been an advocate of tightening up the southern border. He has been loose on that. I also think, he's willing to go out and sue drug companies, which I'm OK with, but is not willing to go out and take action like that when we are losing $250 million in the Feeding Our Future fraud. In the situation, where Governor Walz learned of the fact that there was fraud going on. We cannot pin him down, whether it was April. But the fact was he broke the law by not advising the office of the legislative auditor that there was likely fraud going on. Governor Walz broke the law.
MODERATOR: Thank you. We will get to that a bit later in the debate. On to one of our short answer questions. You will have 30 seconds to answer this. Minnesota is surrounded by states that have legalized sports gambling. But some of them have not legalized it on mobile platforms. In 30 seconds, will you push for legalized sports gambling and the ability to bet, via mobile devices. Dr. Jensen, 30 seconds.
SCOTT JENSEN: I would say yes and yes. I would support sports betting on mobilized forms. I think it's important to realize that we need to do this in an effort to secure funding for meaningful programs. We cannot, if we move in this direction, simply take money from that and allow politicians just to find another way, to find another pool of money and spend that. We need to do that because the government does not need to be regulating us.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Governor Walz, will you push for legalized sports gambling and the ability to bet via mobile devices?
TIM WALZ: I will support the bills that the Legislature pushes. I think we need framework to make sure it is done right, inside our already existing gambling revenues in Minnesota. I would argue I trust Minnesotans as well. I think we should legalize recreational cannabis. The revenues from sports gaming are relatively small compared to some of the other things we do. Yes, I would support us doing it right. I also know we need to manage that at the state level.
MODERATOR: Justin.
MODERATOR: We're getting a clear picture of how the COVID-19 pandemic is impacting our children's education. Math and reading scores have dropped the first two years of the pandemic. ACT scores are the lowest they have been. What would you do as Governor to direct the state's resources and help the children succeed in schools? Governor Walz first.
TIM WALZ: What we have always done, we fully fund our schools, make sure they have the support, make sure our teachers, students, parents and support staff are there. Before the pandemic, there were things we can do, Minnesota ranks near the top. The pandemic hit. A million people died, the implications of trying to make those difficult decisions at those times. Most folks agree that those decisions saved lives. With that being said, now is the time to reinvest and know what we learned. Our ability to use different methods. I know this as a lifelong educator, students learn at different levels. One of the things we saw was great resiliency among students, once we have them back in the classroom, we're doing new ways to make sure they get caught up. One of the things is Minnesota had another opportunity to put a billion dollars in on special education. That deal died in the Legislature. We can make that the case again. We see it in housing, diversity issues on children of color, making sure we close the gap. While students of color do better than any other state, there is still a gap between white students. We make sure that local control has the ability to make those decisions and the state makes sure as we provide the promised resources to these incredibly important -- our most precious resources our children, but making sure we deliver that in a manner that parents want.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Dr. Jensen.
SCOTT JENSEN: I heard a lot of words, but I don't quite know if they made sense. Governor Walz said people of color, or students of color are doing better in Minnesota? I'm not certain. I would say this. When Governor Walz says we need to fully fund education, who knows what that means. We spend 150% of what a lot of states spend for students. We spend more per student, than any other in Western states. We have to ask the question, are we getting what we pay for? We need to start funding kids, not broken institutions. Teachers understand that they could be unleashed and do more. The teachers are not crazy with what the union is doing. We need to unleash teachers for parents and students to work together. We deal with the fact that half of our kids are not reading or doing arithmetic to grade level. Understandably, in the first couple of weeks of the pandemic, we understood hard things would have to be done. When Tim Walz said 80% of kids in Minnesota missed less than 10 days of in class instruction, he was telling parents you don't know what you're talking about. The fact is, they probably missed more than 100 days. The second lockdown, there was no reason for the governor to be so heavy-handed and destroy our children's education. We don't get a do over with these kids. These kids will be paying the price of Tim Walz's irresponsible policy decision for years.
MODERATOR: Let's go over to Stacy.
MODERATOR: One of the candidates, the county sheriff has served the department since 1994. He has said that they need a better plan to respond to school shootings. The confirmed abject failure of law enforcement's response in Uvalde Texas weighs heavily on this country. What can you do to make sure parents and students are confident school is a safe place to be?
SCOTT JENSEN: There's no question that we have got to do a better job at providing a safe place for kids. We have to provide a safe place for our teachers. Both teachers and kids are vulnerable in the school building. Teachers are being assaulted. We are seeing kids, teachers, parents, victimized at football games. This is a product of a lawlessness that swept over our state. It started with Tim Walz delaying in 2020. He unleashed a poisonous spread of lawlessness. Arguably, he is the godfather of the crime epidemic sweeping our country. What we can do with kids, we have to look at new things in terms of controlling access points. We need to recognize that the police will have an awful lot of expertise of how we can do this better. We need more cops. We need more restorative justice. We need to respect what police do. It will not help us when we see the Governor get behind Omar, when she says the police are cancer, need to be dismantled and defunded. And weeks later Tim Walz is saying this is the woman we have to send to Washington DC to represent us. We need to make sure that imprisoning people is a deterrent for violence. We need to mandate minimum sentences and without question, the law has to be reinforced. We can do better. If we think we can cherry pick, and everything else runs amok, we are kidding ourselves.
MODERATOR: Governor Walz, 90 seconds.
TIM WALZ: We have seen this. Being a teacher and having a sophomore in high school, this doesn't happen in other countries. This plague of violence we see. I will make the case that these school shootings of children who cannot even be identified because of the damage that has been done by the shooters in their schools, there are things we can do. One is making sure we increase the opportunity for public safety. We had a budget this year that was killed in the Legislature when Scott pulled and stepped away from that. We have increase in LGA. It's much more than that. We have guns on the street that were meant for war. We had the opportunity to do smart things whether it was background checks or making sure we have red flag laws. The easy access to these firearms is one of the problems. We see that on our streets today. A shooting at a restaurant in St. Paul, personnel ended up with two of the guns there got them through a straw buyer got 90 of them. We have to have a conversation about guns about fully funding our local police to get there, we need to make sure we are doing all we can to understand that if you use a gun it is going to be a heavy cost we need to move back, upstream in the prevention of that. We want to make sure we have smart policy in place.
MODERATOR: That was my follow-up question. Who should have these military style weapons?
SCOTT JENSEN: The rebuttal has to be focused on who shut down the session. Tim Walz, Democratic chair confessed that the governor will not allow the Democrats to vote, Tim Walz shut down the session, nobody else did. There's only one person in the state who can call the legislation back together that is the governor. You're giving me credit Tim. I didn't know I was powerful that I can shut you down and you did need to come back you had every opportunity. By the way you better check --
MODERATOR: Dr. Jensen, on the access to guns?
SCOTT JENSEN: I signed on to a strong bill. I kept my name on that, I agree that strawman purchases should be in penalties in regard to specific types of guns. I'm a strong advocate of the Second Amendment. These shootings are not happening because lawful people are not following the law. They are happening because lawbreakers are going to get the guns and they're not going to go through the system. We don't think that is going to solve the problem.
MODERATOR: Governor Walz.
TIM WALZ: Scott has been all over. The Moms Demand Action, Dr. Jensen told the group of them that he can trust the integrity of the bill. As far as shutting down the Legislature he knows how it goes, the governor cannot do this alone. His public statements were good. Walk away from this deal. We would've had it for $50 million, dollars for health care, $4 billion would have gone back into your pocket. I will make sure we follow through.
MODERATOR: We have to move along. Moving to the next question we saw soaring gas prices, some restrictions on cheaper fuel but drivers still felt the hit, California moving to ban gas powered vehicles by 2035. Minnesota has followed the Golden State's emission standards but this move has drawn concerns from Minnesota businesses and farmers. How do you balance the need to lower greenhouse gases emissions and keep freedom of choice for consumers, Governor Walz?
TIM WALZ: The market will help fix this that is one of the national chair of the biofuel conference. I have worked on it for decades. Our future fuels are going to be made right here in Minnesota. The road, the cars that are on the road are going to be on the road for decades but this transition to make sure that we are addressing greenhouse gases and following where the market is going. All of the manufacturing by 2035 will only be producing those vehicles. It's why Minnesota went on the initiative to make sure that we're going to be the state that builds the infrastructure necessary for the charging stations. Making sure now that Minnesotans will have a choice of over 40 vehicles rather than the eight that they were limited to. You don't want to buy one, don't buy but if you're going to buy one. One in Minnesota, we have the opportunity to continue to grow our economy, to continue to make that transition to understand that that is where the market and climate is going. Now, the good news here is from the businesses, it's pretty limited number because we have a climate action plan that attracted almost all of the major men, all of the major businesses in Minnesota. Whether it's XL Energy producing the power, whether it's Ecolab understanding what the climate looks like or whether it's our environmental group that understands it. Minnesota plans to reduce emissions especially in the area of transportation, we have a golden opportunity. So this is a win-win. Our farmers, produce ethanol, and have been the pioneers and I have lead on so many of these initiatives on E85.
MODERATOR: Dr. Jensen you have 90 seconds.
SCOTT JENSEN: This is politics as usual. By forcing Minnesotans to buy electric vehicles they don't want so in 2035 all new vehicles are electric, Governor Walz is telling Minnesotans he is allowing you to follow the market. He is forcing the market. He is forcing inflationary pressures on all Minnesotans. He hasn't come up with his own tailor-made plan, he has copied California over and over again. He put the largest biennial general budget forward last session in the history of Minnesota. It has never gone up that many dollars. He has told Minnesotans you don't get to buy the cars you want to buy, I'm going to force-feed you. He has told the farmers I'm with you on biofuels and on the other hand he says but we're going to completely electric vehicles and electric vehicles that run on biofuels. He's told the northern part of the state, you're not going to be able to mine because I don't trust you. Tells us that the things we need in order to have electric vehicles, we're going produce in Minnesota. It doesn't add up. Hope we see this people. This is crazy. Tim Walz is saying no you cannot mine nickel and copper. He's saying to the farmers, I'm with you on biofuels but then he says to this group, we're going to have electric vehicles and none other. He wants to get rid of internal combustion engine vehicles. You can't have it every which way. This is just a word salad with no substance.
MODERATOR: We will get to the issue of mining. Let's get over to Caitlin.
MODERATOR: I have another short answer. Other than thanking them for being willing to serve in office, what is one nice thing you can say about your opponent?
SCOTT JENSEN: I have thought about this question. I think Tim Walz is an affable individual who has a wonderful smile.
TIM WALZ: I think Scott has shown a great affinity as he talks about his family, how important that is to him. That's a good indicator of someone in their heart, that is something I always appreciate when someone puts their family first.
MODERATOR: Let's get over to Stacy.
MODERATOR: Agriculture is a driver of the Minnesota economy adding more than $12 billion a year and creating more than 400,000 jobs. COVID showed us how fragile the food system is. What can you do to enforce policies protect the state and those working within agriculture to ensure all Minnesotans have access to a safe and steady food source. Governor Walz.
TIM WALZ: This is an area I am proud of from working on farms growing up to serving 12 years and being a subcommittee ranking member in the House Agriculture Committee passing three farm bills. I recognize and have deep roots and deep relationships with the people in Minnesota. We do feed, fuel and clothe the world. We've always been on the forefront. We're making that balancing that chance between production and increasing production for a hungrier world but also at the same time using working lands conservation. I had the opportunity to be in Worthington this last Saturday where we dedicated a new piece of land in the middle of some of the most productive farmland in Minnesota to allow for hunting and for habitat. In Minnesota, some of the things that we can do is first and foremost, we pass the most robust agricultural budget this year and provided for some of the relief that climate change is bringing. I think one of the things that we saw is we diversified meat packing industry. We now have opportunities for students to study meatpacking. It's one of the things my father's parents did. They had a small meat locker. I remember growing up working in that. Those are back now. We are teaching students to do that. We're diversifying that. Making sure that we don't have so much vertical integration and then we are continuing to use investments we make at the University of Minnesota and into our commodity groups to make innovations. We now drive on soy tires. We're going to see the opportunity in so many fronts to be able to use some of those value agricultural products. Minnesota does this incredibly well. We do it as well as anyone in our community.
SCOTT JENSEN: When he was on the committee in Congress he didn't show up to the bill in 2018 and I think it was a newspaper in the southern portion of the state that excoriated him for his absence in determining what was going to go on that ag bill. We need to recognize how important ag is. It's more than 30% of our economy. Governor Walz has been very heavy-handed. All of these agencies have to take a posture. They're there to facilitate, become rather than punitive, that's a big problem. We need to understand that to grow ag. We need to know that the culture in which farmers own their business has to improve. Regulations are killing farmers. We need to reduce taxes and make it so family farms can stay in family farms. I made it clear, over my dead body would I allow foreign corporations to buy family farms in Minnesota. We need to understand the treatments to the crops, the seeds, soil needs to be researched. Transportation is huge. We need to make sure the young people stay in our communities they need to understand all of the opportunities to connect with what the workforce needs. We need to stop following California's elite. We don't need to do that. Energy is a huge issue for farmers and I don't think we've done a good job there. We've got to be able to have more, if you will, competitive impacts bringing better priced fuels to farmers. Diesel fuel is killing the farming industry.
MODERATOR: Now to mining. Twin Metals controversial proposal to mine copper and nickel was essentially killed by the Biden administration who terminated their mineral leases following objections from environmental groups and Native tribes. If a future administration wanted to reinstate those leases to then move forward with the permitting and environmental impact process, is this something you would support and why, Dr. Jensen you have 90 seconds?
SCOTT JENSEN: I would absolutely support getting the mining going, regarding Twin Metals. It is terrific what we have done with the permitting and the regulation, it is killing the northern part of our state and we need those minerals and the fact is we've had mining in the northern part of the state for 150 years. If you want to know who stewards land best, it's the people who live there, who raise their children there, who want their grandchildren raised there. We absolutely can mine in the northern part of the state. As far as I'm concerned, we should get government out of the way and let miners mine and let loggers log and let farmers farm. But here's the rub. We're not seeing mining take place because Tim Walz has hooked his wagon to Joe Biden and I guess with Kamala Harris coming to town, he's hooked her to his wagon as well. Between Biden, Harris and Walz they have squashed mining in northern Minnesota and has killed the economy. These folks are like you and I, they just want to take care of their family, pay the bills maybe take a vacation but it is not happening. This is just wrong. Can you imagine how you would feel if you had this government politician come from hundreds of miles away and tell you you don't get to do this. The way you grew up you don't get to do this, the job you want you don't get to do this because that is what is happening. We should absolutely let miners mine.
MODERATOR: Thank you, Dr. Jensen.
TIM WALZ: First of all a week and a half ago I was with the president of U.S. Steel and the steelworkers as we made the largest investment in mining in northern Minnesota in decades at the mine. We continue to make sure we are following the science, the law and process. The idea that we get out of the way, thanks -- the goodness I saw a bald eagle today I'm glad the governor made the decision that we can work together. The idea that teachers, farmers or miners don't want to do things right and they want people out-of-the-way is ridiculous. We set standards to make sure we keep those and we have done that in northern Minnesota. I have been clear on these processes. We will follow the science we will process the law and we will do that in a manner that makes sure we are able to do them safely and able to produce what we are going to produce. We follow that process in one of the largest construction projects in northern Minnesota and we know there's a trade-off. You have to be careful with environmental standards so you can create these jobs. You're hearing this idea a lot tonight what is not happening are complaints rather than real solutions, watching spades go on the ground up there and watching the Keetac mine be solid again making sure that those hundreds of jobs and stay there. It is the reason why we have the lowest unemployment rate in the country the second highest labor participation rate and some of the highest projections of what the state can do. If it's agriculture, medical, mining if we can do so safely and smartly we will do it.
MODERATOR: To be clear if a future administration wanted to reinstate Twin Metals mineral leases to move forward with permitting and environmental impact process?
TIM WALZ: We will follow the statement. We started we did it and that is what has been there. They process according to the law.
MODERATOR: What's your answer?
TIM WALZ: Yes we will follow if they reinstate the mines.
MODERATOR: Thank you Governor Walz. Let's get over to Caitlin.
MODERATOR: Minnesota has more than a $9 billion surplus. Governor Walz and Republicans cannot come to terms to decide how to use the money. If you become Governor what do you think should be done with the billions in our budget surplus?
TIM WALZ: Well, I'm glad that our administration was able to create this most of this was created by corporate profits that went through during my term we have lower taxes on the middle class. We have created the largest rainy day funds we reduce cost and government and we have been able to do the surplus. I agree together with Republicans as we signed our names before they walked away that we would leave $4 billion of this on the bottom line. And we would put $4 million investing in long-term care public safety, education and get the matching funds for the transportation bill. It was a fair deal but I guess they didn't want to get the win on this. Our plan to invest in all things grow Minnesota is in a contrast with Scott. He made the proposal that he wants to remove the income tax, which the bulk of that would go to millionaires like himself at the same time, taxing Minnesotans for clothes and food. It would raise their property taxes, it would gut the funding to our schools, transportation systems and the things Minnesota loves. This is the fundamental difference we invest in Minnesotans we make targeted tax cuts in the middle class. We are proud of our targeted taxation system and we make sure those who are doing well pay their fair share. What we get is one of the best states for longevity. You get what you pay for in Minnesota.
SCOTT JENSEN: If you get what you pay for, I guess Governor Walz didn't pay much for the police. We have a lawlessness we have not seen before. Let's ask ourselves questions. What is the increase in the budget over the last 11 years? 75%. From 30 billion to 52 billion. Governor Walz's proposal was the largest single biannual increase in dollars in the history of Minnesota that is what he is doing. We have a 10 to $12 billion surplus that seems to move around but here's the deal. If we win 12% during the biennium and he wants to spend another three or $4 billion you're up to 17% increase in one biennium, that is not sustainable. The average wage earner has earned -- Governor went up 75% this is not sustainable. Governor Walz was not interested in having a bonding bill unless he got to spend more. Governor Walz's favorite tactic is to play Santa Claus and say, I'm going to give you a check for a thousand dollars, isn't that nice of me? If you would stop the waste, fraud, abuse, cost overruns and pay attention, you would save every family in Minnesota $1000. You wouldn't have to be going out pandering like some politician who's trying to buy votes. Minnesotans get what is going on.
MODERATOR: Thank you, Dr. Jensen. Let's get over to Justin.
MODERATOR: The largest known COVID-19 fraud scheme in the nation was discovered in Minnesota. Close to 50 people are facing charges for misusing $250 million meant to feed children during the pandemic. What role does the governor's office play in this situation, and what steps would you take to make sure something like this doesn't happen again?
SCOTT JENSEN: I think the Governor's office was lazy. There were signs. Governor Walz said, he was made aware of the situation April 2020. What his office called the news reporter, and said he misspoke, they called back and said November. It doesn't matter. The governor had every right to believe fraud may be taking place with this Feeding Our Future, $250 million. According to state law, he has a responsibility to notify the Office of Legislative Auditors. He never did it. The legislative auditor goes on record with the letter saying that never happened. That is breaking the law. Governor Walz and his team could have stopped this anywhere along the line. When it was getting warm in the kitchen, basically it appears there's a cover up. Two questions are huge on all of our minds. What did Governor Walz know and when did he know? Here are the facts. When he was pinned down on that, he said well, it was the judge who made a bad decision. Then he said, when the judge came back, in an unprecedented move, he said it was the FBI. He said the FBI told them to keep making fraudulent payments because they didn't want to get in the investigation. Then he said it was the U.S. Department of Agriculture not having the right program in place. There were five different points for Tim Walz to stop this. But he didn't.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Governor Walz.
TIM WALZ: All of us can agree fraud is unacceptable. Whether it is in the public or private sector. When we came into the office with the MNLARS system, not fraud but it was $100 million in an ineffective system. We work together to put that in place. We have implemented that in many agencies. We have had many audits from the auditor, unprecedented of the governor's office released this year in September. During COVID, the federal government relaxed some of the rules and sent out, as they should have, the funds in unprecedented numbers. Making sure those safeguards in place, is a priority. Once the Department of Education found this they alerted the FBI. EB
continue
TIM WALZ: It's an ongoing investigation. We will get more clarity when it comes to that. One that is important is for hundreds of school districts and honest providers, we provided food to children during a critical time, when those are putting out false misinformation, this was a life-and-death situation, food security was a top priority. The vast majority of those delivered did an incredible job, where Minnesota was ranked top for food security. No one agrees with the fraud. We made sure that those people will go to jail. We will put things in place, as they have done at the federal level, rolling and putting back in the safeguards. I think the after action is for us to strengthen those.
MODERATOR: Was there -- he said the governor's office, is there a step that you can take? Is there a step going forward to prevent this or something you can do differently than try harder?
TIM WALZ: It's the intersection with the federal government to know the payees go. One other thing, when you do these types of grants, there's a grant agency that does it to some of the smaller ones. The grant agency that was responsible for making sure they were overseeing this was fraud. One of the things you do on this is working with the federal government, if it's a federal government program being administered by the state, you make sure the federal and state safeguards.
SCOTT JENSEN: You just heard a smokescreen. This is not about the federal government. This is about the state of Minnesota and the office should have been notified. The fact is when there is a lawsuit taking place, there is tremendous opportunity for the Attorney General, Tim Walz to look at the checkbook to make sure where these tens of millions of dollars are going, and they would see that Teslas were being bought vacation homes are being bought. This is laziness to the most magnifying degree.
MODERATOR: Thank you Dr. Jensen.
SCOTT JENSEN: There's a cover-up going on.
MODERATOR: We have to move on now. Moving down to markets. They cover Minnesota. Outside of the Twin Cities, more rural parts of the state. Yet in the summer of 2020 we all watched as parts of Minneapolis burned following the murder of George Floyd. Looking back, what would you do differently in reaction to the protests that turned violent? Dr. Jensen how would you handle that situation as governor?
TIM WALZ: This is theoretical. When you're in the room you have to set the decisions, sidelining and critiquing, that is not what being governor is. The murder of George Floyd shocked not only Minnesota, shocked the world. The civil unrest that ensued from that was probably some of the greatest we have seen both in this nation and globally. That operation involving dozens of local county and the state, involving multiple states in the region and the federal government had to be assembled, coordinated, and make sure we brought order back. I will tell you that is terrifying for Minnesotans in those days. Nothing like this had been seen, the level of violence after the murder of George Floyd. Again, there will be stories written. This will be written about for some time. I am proud of Minnesota's response, of their first responders out there, from firefighters to the National Guard, to citizens out there. When we got done with this, and President Trump's Secretary of Defense wrote a book, he was on the phone many times communicating with public safety folks here, making the case. His assessment of this was that Minnesota had to write the book on this. They had to build the plane, they were flying on it, and it had to be the model used in every state. There were several cases from Derek Chauvin's trial. It did not from the lessons learned.
MODERATOR: Dr. Jensen you have 90 seconds.
SCOTT JENSEN: You heard it here. Governor Walz told you, I am proud of Minnesota's response, referring to the riots of May and June. This is not a one-off situation. There's a reason that the Minnesota Police have endorsed me unanimously. The pattern that has emerged is that Tim Walz denigrated the National Guard. Tim Walz did not use them when they could have restored safety, security and lawful behavior. Then when confronted about it, he made a comment about a bunch of 19-year-old cooks. He didn't stand with the National Guard. On May 28, he conferred with the cops. He told them stand down. And at the State Fair, he said it was because of the best advice from law enforcement, blaming law enforcement for making that decision. A couple of weeks after, their precinct burned. Christopher Columbus statue was torn down. Over and over, anything that has to do with lawful behavior it seems that Tim Walz is not there. He said, I am proud of the way Minnesota responded. Burn that into your psyche. We initiated like never before, Tim Walz is proud of Minnesota's response.
MODERATOR: I want to ask the question again, how would you handle the situation had you been Governor?
SCOTT JENSEN: The chain of command would've kicked in. We have experts. We have a Commissioner of Public Safety, police chiefs in Minneapolis. You have got to lean into these people. There were plans and methodologies created should have been kicked into gear. Tim Walz should have been using the bully pulpit to calm the people. We should not have had TV analysts and journalists saying where's our governor? This was the biggest crisis we have experienced in my lifetime and Tim Walz was absent.
MODERATOR: A chance for rebuttal?
TIM WALZ: I said I was part of the first responders. This was an incredibly difficult and unprecedented incident. There was no precedent before. I have stood with the National Guard for 24 years. It doesn't change the fact. I don't care what Scott says about me. I care about what he says about the folks, doing this work that put the plan together dealing with an unprecedented situation and restore order.
SCOTT JENSEN: What he means is 19-year-old cooks.
TIM WALZ: The question I made on this of being a soldier in this, is that each of us has a military occupational specialty. Scott took a clip of what I said. One of the problems is getting folks right away. We have troops deployed over the world. We have specialties trained for this. We have a small percentage of the National Guard trained for civil defense, not urban warfare. I made the case that some of us artillery men, some of us are pilots, some of us are newly enlisted 19-year-olds cooks. It's an important part of what we do. Having a deep understanding of the military's role in making the claim that this is somehow slanderous of someone who doesn't understand that. That is why, making the case and this I will be the first to tell you, not everything can go perfectly.
SCOTT JENSEN: That's how two of them go.
MODERATOR: We do have to move along to the next question.
MODERATOR: Let's address an issue that stands out. Diversity. There are no people of color in this debate, either on this panel or the candidates for governor. In the wake of 2020 and the social unrest experienced in Minnesota, where do you think Minnesotans are?
SCOTT JENSEN: There's not much diversity in the audience either, I guess that is because we don't have an audience. Having said that, I think that was Tim Walz's choice. Minnesota is absolutely committed to being the kind of marvelous state, where kids get foundational educations. They are not judged by the color of their skin. I think you are seeing a rising up of minority communities, saying we are not pleased with this hyper accentuation of skin color. I am old enough to remember I was taught, if you see someone who looks different than you just forget that and stick your hand out and make a new friend. We absolutely corrupted the way we are educating our kids in school. We are saying that somehow some artificial parameter as to what is acceptable diversity, inclusion, is what we have to hit. That's not human nature. We need to keep reaching out and making new friends. We need to understand that just because you see two white guys appear on the stage tonight doesn't mean that Tim Walz or Scott Jensen are some racially biased individuals. We need to keep working on it, Minnesota's not perfect, America is not perfect. We don't have to do it in the context of name-calling.
MODERATOR: We are confined to a TV station. For space there is no audience. Where do you think Minnesotans are on race relations and where are we headed?
TIM WALZ: It's a work in progress. It's 160 years, whether it is indigenous communities, boarding schools or land confiscated, we are working on it. I am proud of the Lieutenant Governor, the first indigenous person to assume office. I am proud of our judicious appointments that are stunning to look like the states. I hear Scott denigrating our schools and just vicious black internet rumors about things. That is not who we are. We are a state of immigrants and value that. We have more refugees per capita than any other state. That is not just morally a good thing. It's our economic and cultural future. This beautiful diversity we see, you see 50 languages spoken in the school and you see every storefront filled with different types of food, different businesses happening. Minnesota needs to continue to do that. The office of the governor can set the tone of that. That's why when Scott said that immigrants are undermining the fabric of our state, that's type of talk that turns people away. We're going to need to continue to attract people here, to diversify and we're going to have to put policies in place that make sure we are attracting people of color so students have someone they can understand, look like, think like, see like in front of them. George Floyd sparked that conversation.
MODERATOR: Thank you Governor Walz.
MODERATOR: We want to get to the final question before we wrap up. There are a million topics we could talk about but we just don't have the time. People would assume a lot of things by seeing the name next to yours. In 30 seconds are there any topics where you think your party has it wrong or you differ? We will start with Governor Walz.
TIM WALZ: On biofuels and some of our agricultural work. I have been an outlier, I was one of the few Democratic members of Congress who was on the ag committee. I'm the one who has support of the statewide agricultural groups and there's friends in there of understanding us and I think our party could do better of listening, reaching out, understanding these policies and trying to find that common ground.
SCOTT JENSEN: The Republican Party has plenty of room for improvement. I'm proud of the fact that we are recognizing it. We need to do a better job of elevating issues and concerns that moms have, we need to do a better job of going to the minority communities and asking them what is important. When they do, they belong with us, they want to elevate faith and family and freedom and freedom in life. We need to do a better job of going to millennials and Gen Z's and say we need your help solving problems. We need to go to immigrants and say you are the fabric of our future.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Each of you are going to get two minutes for those closing statements, based on the coin toss before the debate. Governor Walz you will go first.
TIM WALZ: I would like to thank Scott for his participation. To TV and our moderators. I know there's a big audience out there and I know you care about the state. You're getting a choice of a vision of Minnesota one that questions our elections, one that tells women they can't make choices, one that defies our public schools, or you get an opportunity that brought so many of us to Minnesota. An opportunity for state that is inclusive, an opportunity in a state that, we do spend a little more on health care, a little more on education, we do spend a little more on our roads. We've got the fourth largest amount of roads in the country behind California, Texas and Illinois. We know that you invest in the future, that that's what comes back to you tenfold over. Our children are fundamental to us. Investing in fully funding education and making sure they have the best start is what we can do. Making sure we're investing in the workforce of the future. Business communities know. We're going to have to tackle this issue. We do have the lowest unemployment rate and most of our people work. We need to attract people here by being a state that is welcoming, by being a state that says, you know we're going to help figure out this crisis around childcare and it's a state that says, you know what? When problems come up, it's not enough just to complain about them. We've seen it across the country. We've seen it here. We should have zero tolerance on crime. We should invest the money that we know we need to invest and we need to collaborate together and then, we should make smart policies making sure we keep dangerous, military weapons out of the hands of our children. Making sure we're continuing to invest in innovation at the University of Minnesota and our state colleges systems and our community colleges. Those are the ways that Minnesota's come together. I've talked a lot about One Minnesota, I didn't come up with that. That's what we believe. Whether it's mining on the Iron Range, whether it's farming in southern Minnesota, or whether it's a job in the Twin Cities. Folks who try and divide us apart are not going to do it. This is our opportunity to learn from what's happened, to come out of the pandemic, and to create a Minnesota that everybody can thrive in.
MODERATOR: Thank you. Dr. Jensen, two minutes.
SCOTT JENSEN: Everyone I see across the state north, south, east, west has endured some pretty trying times. I think everyone's felt some heartbreak from watching people's lives turned upside down and everyone has grasped at some level that Tim Walz has failed, he got away from it, he tried he repeated mistakes, he fumbled, he locked down businesses, he locked out kids he locked in frail elderly. The question is, who's going to step forward. Who is going to try to find a new path for Minnesota? Clearly, we're not One Minnesota. Who is going to help Minnesota find its way back to be the bright shining star of the North? To be that economic hub of the Midwest? You, you, Minnesotans have the opportunity to do this. You have the power to take back your rights. You have the power to turn your agencies. Instead of being heavy handed, punitive agencies. Whether you're talking the DNR or the Met Council, whether you're talking to the MPCA, you have the ability to step forward. We need to stand up together. We need to recognize that Matt Birk and Scott Jensen are not professional politicians. We will make mistakes. We will use words that we should have chosen a different word. I will make mistakes to be sure. But at the end of the day, I will take the slings and the arrows. I will get bruised and bloodied. I have. I have never had anybody spend $15 million dollars to denigrate my name and it is what it is. I get it. I've been family doctor of the year and I've started businesses and built clinics. I've been on school board, and president of the church council and the Rotary and Alliance. I've always been a measured person. To be called extreme has been an unusual experience for me. This time around, I want you and I to stand in the arena side by side. I want us to go forward. And I want us to heal Minnesota.
MODERATOR: Alright, thank you both. That is our time for tonight. We appreciate Governor Tim Walz and Dr. Scott Jensen for being here. Early voting is currently underway and Election Day is November 8. Thank you for watching.